Prof. A L Bowley defines statistics as the science of averages.
whereas Webster defines statistics as 'the classified facts representing the conditions of the
people in a state, especially, those facts which can be stated in numbers or in tables of
numbers or in any tabular or classified arrangement'.
Business statistics is used in various sectors such as sports, business, research, planning, etc.
Statistics helps to gain in-depth understanding of various data.
Business statistics takes the data analysis tools from elementary statistics and applies them to business.

Statistics provides a tool that enables us to impose order on the disorganized and disguised real world of modern society. The business world has grown both in size and competition. Corporate executive must take risk in business, hence the need for business statistics. Business statistics is no longer just the art of constructing charts and tables; it is a science of basing decisions on numerical data in the face of uncertainty. Business statistics is a scientific approach to decision making under risk. In practicing business statistics, we search for an insight, not the solution. Our search is for the one solution that meets all the business's needs with the lowest level of risk. Business statistics can turn a normal business situation, with the proper data gathering, analysis, and research, into an opportunity. While business statistics cannot replace the knowledge and experience of the decision maker, it is a valuable tool that the manager can employ to assist in the decision making process in order to reduce the inherent risk.
 For example, estimating the probability of a defect coming off a factory line, or seeing where sales are headed in the future. Many of the tools used in business statistics are built on ones you’ve probably already come across in basic math: mean, mode and median, bar graphs and the bell curve, and basic probability
Characteristics of Statistics are:
1) agrregate facts :
In the plural sense, statistics refers to data, but data to be called statistics must consist of aggregate of certain facts.
A single and isolated fact or figure like, 20 Kgs. weight of a vegetable on a day does not amount to statistics.
2) Effectiveness by cause:
t is not easy to study the effects of one factor only by ignoring the effects of other factors. Here we have to go for the effects of all the factors on the phenomenon separately as well as collectively, because effects of the factors can change with change of place, time or situation.
Here, the overall effect is taken and not of one factor only as in other natural sciences. For example, we can say that result of class XII in board examination does not depend on any single factor but collectively on standard of teachers, teaching methods, teaching aids, practical’s performance of students,etc.
3) Numerically Expressed:
A data to be called statistics should be numerically expressed so that counting or measurement of data can be made possible. It means that the data or the fact to constitute statistics must be capable of being expressed in some quantitative form as weights of 60, 70, 100 and 90 Kg. or profits of Rs. 10,000, Rs. 20,000 etc. Thus these data must contain numerical figures so that those may be called as numerical statement of facts.
4) Accurate estimation:
As stated above that the statements should be precise and meaningful. For getting reasonable standard of accuracy the field of enquiry should not be very large. If it is infinite or very large, even enumeration of data is impossible and reasonable standard of accuracy may not be achieved.
5) purpose of collection:
Before we start the collection of data, we must be clear with the purpose for which we are collecting the data. If we have no information about its purpose, we may not be collecting data according to the needs. We may need some more relevant data to achieve the required purpose, which we would miss in the event of its ignorance.
6) Scalability:
The collection of data is generally done with the motive to compare. If the figures collected are not comparable, in that case, they lose a large part of their significance.

It means, the figures collected should be homogeneous for comparison and not heterogeneous.